Katib v1beta1 documentation update (#2312)
kubeflow/website: content/en/docs/components/katib/katib-config.md

+++
title = "Katib Configuration Overview"
description = "How to make changes in Katib configuration"
weight = 40
                    
+++

> This page describes information about
> [Katib config](https://github.com/kubeflow/katib/blob/master/manifests/v1beta1/katib-controller/katib-config.yaml).
> 
> Katib config is the Kubernetes
> [Config Map](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/) that contains information about:

Reviewer: Thank you for the PR @andreyvelich 

Hi, what do you think of this suggestion? 
- "refactor" to 'This page describes Katib config — the Kubernetes Config Map that contains information about:'

```suggestion
This page describes
[Katib config](https://github.com/kubeflow/katib/blob/master/manifests/v1beta1/katib-controller/katib-config.yaml) — 
the Kubernetes
[Config Map](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-pod-configmap/) that contains information about:
```

Author: Agree, changed.

1. Current [metrics collectors](/docs/components/katib/experiment/#metrics-collector) (`key = metrics-collector-sidecar`)
1. Current [algorithms](/docs/components/katib/experiment/#search-algorithms-in-detail) (suggestions) (`key = suggestion`).

> Katib Config Map must be deployed in
> [`KATIB_CORE_NAMESPACE`](/docs/components/katib/env-variables/#katib-controller)
> namespace with `katib-config` name. Katib controller parses Katib config when you submit Experiment.

Reviewer: Suggestions:

```suggestion
The Katib Config Map must be deployed in the
[`KATIB_CORE_NAMESPACE`](/docs/components/katib/env-variables/#katib-controller)
namespace with the `katib-config` name. The Katib controller parses the Katib config when you submit your experiment.
```

(or maybe there's a reason it was written as `Experiment`)

You can edit this Config Map even after deploying Katib.

> If you deploy Katib in Kubeflow namespace, to edit Katib config run this:

Reviewer: Maybe just change the order here, use a different (present continuous) tense, and "the" (the definite article) (I checked with the K8s [guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/), as I'm not 100% sure about these):

```suggestion
If you are deploying Katib in the Kubeflow namespace, run this command to edit your Katib config:
```

Author: Agree, changed.

> 
> `kubectl edit configMap katib-config -n kubeflow`
> 

Reviewer: Suggestion - use code style/code font/code block/codefence (K8s style [guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#use-code-style-for-inline-code-commands-and-api-objects), Google style [guide](https://developers.google.com/style/code-in-text#formatting-a-command):

```suggestion

    ```shell
    kubectl edit configMap katib-config -n kubeflow
    ```
```
(without the tabs that indent the code block - they render differently if I remove them)

Author: @8bitmp3 Should we use ```shell everywhere?
e.g. https://github.com/kubeflow/website/blame/master/content/en/docs/components/hyperparameter-tuning/hyperparameter.md#L144 ?

Author: @8bitmp3 I've just seen you comment: https://github.com/kubeflow/website/pull/2320/files#r516300401 about it.
Will do the change in this PR.

Author: Done in https://github.com/kubeflow/website/pull/2312/commits/fe91e741a3f97bdd81e9e34b63a409124f9f933c.

## Metrics Collector Sidecar settings

These settings are related to Katib metrics collectors, where:

> - key = `metrics-collector-sidecar`
> - value = corresponding JSON settings for each metrics collector kind.

Reviewer: Formatting suggestion:

```suggestion
- key: `metrics-collector-sidecar`
- value: corresponding JSON settings for each metrics collector kind
```

Example for the `File` metrics collector with all settings:

```json
metrics-collector-sidecar: |-
{
  "File": {
    "image": "docker.io/kubeflowkatib/file-metrics-collector",
    "imagePullPolicy": "Always",
    "resources": {
      "requests": {
        "memory": "200Mi",
        "cpu": "250m",
        "ephemeral-storage": "200Mi"
      },
      "limits": {
        "memory": "1Gi",
        "cpu": "500m",
        "ephemeral-storage": "2Gi"
      }
    }
  },
  ...
}
```

> All of these settings except **`image`** can be omitted. If you don't specify any other settings, default value is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of these settings except **`image`** can be omitted. If you don't specify any other settings, a default value is set automatically.
```

(Does this proposal make sense?)

Author: Agree, changed. As well, I added the same sentence for the https://github.com/kubeflow/website/pull/2312#discussion_r516258436, I'd like your first suggestion.

> 1. `image` - Docker image for the `File` metrics collector's container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `image` - a Docker image for the `File` metrics collector's container.
```

Author: Agree, changed.
@8bitmp3 I made all list items with not capital letter to be consistent (e.g. https://github.com/kubeflow/website/blame/62aba5ce7a065eb2b60d6b7884f4ab075be33fcc/content/en/docs/components/katib/katib-config.md#L66)
WDYT ?

>    **Must be specified**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **The following values must be specified**:
```

(Does this suggestion make sense?)

Author: That is related to `image`.
@8bitmp3 What do you think about this:
1. `image` - a Docker image for the `File` metrics collector's container (**must be specified**).

1. `imagePullPolicy` - [Image pull policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/overview/#container-images) for the `File` metrics collector's container.

>    Default value is `IfNotPresent`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The default value is `IfNotPresent`.
```

Author: Agree, changed.

1. `resources` - [Resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container/#resource-requests-and-limits-of-pod-and-container)
   for the `File` metrics collector's container. In the above example you can see how to specify
   `limits` and `requests`. Currently, you can specify only `memory`, `cpu` and `ephemeral-storage` resource.

>    Default values for the `requests` are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The default values for the `requests` are:
```

Author: Agree, changed.

   - `memory = 10Mi`.
   - `cpu = 50m`.
   - `ephemeral-storage = 500Mi`.

>    Default values for the `limits` are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The default values for the `limits` are:
```

Author: Agree, changed.

   - `memory = 100Mi`.
   - `cpu = 500m`.
   - `ephemeral-storage = 5Gi`.

## Suggestion settings

These settings are related to Katib suggestions, where:

> - key = `suggestion`
> - value = corresponding JSON settings for each algorithm name.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

```suggestion
- key: `suggestion`
- value: corresponding JSON settings for each algorithm name
```

Author: Agree, changed.

> If you want to use new algorithm, you must update Katib config with the new suggestion.
> 
> Example for the `random` algorithm with all settings:

Reviewer: Suggestion:

```suggestion
If you want to use a new algorithm, you need to update the Katib config. For example, using a `random` algorithm with all settings looks as follows:
```

Reviewer: There's a Markdown that described the `random` algorithm - maybe we should it link it at the first mention in this doc? Up to you.

Author: If you want to use a new algorithm, you need to update the Katib config.

Author: > There's a Markdown that described the `random` algorithm - maybe we should it link it at the first mention in this doc? Up to you.

@8bitmp3 Do you mean this doc: https://deploy-preview-2312--competent-brattain-de2d6d.netlify.app/docs/components/katib/experiment/#random-search ?

```json
suggestion: |-
{
  "random": {
    "image": "docker.io/kubeflowkatib/suggestion-hyperopt",
    "imagePullPolicy": "Always",
    "resources": {
      "requests": {
        "memory": "100Mi",
        "cpu": "100m",
        "ephemeral-storage": "100Mi"
      },
      "limits": {
        "memory": "500Mi",
        "cpu": "500m",
        "ephemeral-storage": "3Gi"
      }
    },
    "serviceAccountName": "random-sa"
  },
  ...
}
```

All of these settings except **`image`** can be omitted.

> If you don't specify any other settings, default value is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't specify any other settings, a default value is set to each setting.
```

(Does this suggestion make sense?)

Author: Agree, changed.

> 1. `image` - Docker image for the suggestion's container with `random` algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `image` - a Docker image for the suggestion's container with a `random` algorithm.
```

Author: Agree, changed.

>    **Must be specified**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **The following values must be specified**:
```

(Does this suggestion make sense?)

Author: See comment: https://github.com/kubeflow/website/pull/2312#discussion_r516328626.

         </tr>
         <tr>
           <td><code>suggestion-goptuna</code></td>
           <td><code>cmaes</code>, <code>random</code>, <code>tpe</code></td>
           <td><a href="https://github.com/c-bata/goptuna">Goptuna</a> optimization framework</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
           <td><code>suggestion-hyperband</code></td>
           <td><code>hyperband</code></td>
           <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/katib/tree/master/pkg/suggestion/v1beta1/hyperband">Katib
             Hyperband</a> implementation</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
           <td><code>suggestion-enas</code></td>
           <td><code>enas</code></td>
           <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/katib/tree/master/pkg/suggestion/v1beta1/nas/enas">Katib
             ENAS</a> implementation</td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
           <td><code>suggestion-darts</code></td>
           <td><code>darts</code></td>
           <td><a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/katib/tree/master/pkg/suggestion/v1beta1/nas/darts">Katib
             DARTS</a> implementation</td>
         </tr>
       </tbody>
     </table>

>    </div>

Reviewer: Should we wrap this in a code block with an `html` "tag"

```
    ```html
    ...
    ```
```

1. `imagePullPolicy` - [Image pull policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/overview/#container-images)
   for the suggestion's container with `random` algorithm.

>    Default value is `IfNotPresent`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The default value is `IfNotPresent`.
```

1. `resources` - [Resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container/#resource-requests-and-limits-of-pod-and-container)
   for the suggestion's container with `random` algorithm. In the above example you can see how to specify
   `limits` and `requests`. Currently, you can specify only `memory`, `cpu` and `ephemeral-storage` resource.

>    Default values for the `requests` are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The default values for the `requests` are:
```

   - `memory = 10Mi`.
   - `cpu = 50m`.
   - `ephemeral-storage = 500Mi`.

>    Default values for the `limits` are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The default values for the `limits` are:
```

   - `memory = 100Mi`.
   - `cpu = 500m`.
   - `ephemeral-storage = 5Gi`.

1. `serviceAccountName` - [Service account](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/)
   for the suggestion's container with `random` algorithm.

   In the above example, `random-sa` service account is attached for each Experiment's
   suggestion with `random` algorithm until you change or delete this service account from the Katib config.

>    By default suggestion pod doesn't have any specific service account.
>    In that case, suggestion's pod uses [default](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#use-the-default-service-account-to-access-the-api-server) service account.

Reviewer: Maybe we can merge these:

```suggestion
   By default, the suggestion pod doesn't have any specific service account,
   in which case, the pod uses the 
   [default](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#use-the-default-service-account-to-access-the-api-server) service account.
```

+++
title = "Katib Configuration Overview"
description = "How to make changes in Katib configuration"
weight = 50
                    
+++

> This page describes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide describes
```
